=========================================================================

    Tail-f ConfD

    On-device software system for configuration management
    For further information about Tail-f ConfD, see 
    http://www.tail-f.com

    Copyright Tail-f Systems AB 2005-2018

=========================================================================


Installation
~~~~~~~~~~~~

Welcome to the world of ConfD on-device Configuration Management.

ConfD is delivered as a self-extract archive which is OS/CPU specific
plus a number of generic tar-archives with documentation, examples,
etc.  When you run the installation, the self extract archive will
unpack both itself and the tar-archives, provided that they are
located in the same directory.

ConfD can be installed either locally in your home directory, or in a
central location for multiple users to use.

To install ConfD, just run the confd installer with a single argument,
that is the directory where you'd like ConfD to be installed.  The
installation directory you specify must either not yet exist, or be
empty.  No files will be added or modified outside the directory you
specify.

    $ sh confd-<VERSION>.<OS>.<ARCH>.installer.bin /path/to/install_directory

On a typical system, it looks like this:

    $ sh download/confd-X.X.linux.i686.installer.bin ~/confd-X.X
    INFO  Unpacked confd-X.X in /home/tempuser/confd-X.X
    INFO  Found and unpacked corresponding DOCUMENTATION_PACKAGE
    INFO  Found and unpacked corresponding EXAMPLE_PACKAGE
    INFO  Generating default SSH hostkey (this may take some time)
    INFO  SSH hostkey generated
    INFO  Environment set-up generated in /home/tempuser/confd-X.X/confdrc
    INFO  ConfD installation script finished
    $

As you can see, in addition to unpacking the installation files, the
installation program will create a default SSH hostkey and a file
'confdrc' with handy environment settings for using this installation.

SEE ALSO (search further down in this document)
  * Installing ConfD in a Central Location
  * Moving a ConfD Installation
  * Removing a ConfD Installation
  * Installing ConfD for Deployment
  * Troubleshooting


Setting up Your Environment
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

This document refers to the directory where ConfD is installed as
$CONFD_DIR.  In fact, the example makefiles use precisely that
environment variable to find the ConfD installation, if you have it
set.  Similarly, the operating system uses $PATH, $MANPATH and
$LD_LIBRARY_PATH to find the ConfD executables and man pages.

The installation program creates a shell script file, 'confdrc', in
each ConfD installation which sets these variables. Source this file
to get these settings in your shell. You may want to add this sourcing
command to your login sequence, such as '.bashrc'.  For csh/tcsh users
there is a 'confdrc.tcsh' file using csh/tcsh syntax. The examples
below assume that you are using bash - other versions of /bin/sh may
require that you use '.' instead of 'source'.

    $ source ~/confd-X.X/confdrc
    $ man confd
    ...

If you are working with multiple versions of ConfD, just source the
respective 'confdrc' file to switch between them.

    $ source ~/confd-2.1/confdrc
    $ man confd
    ...
    $ source ~/confd-2.2/confdrc
    $ man confd
    ...


ConfD Documentation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ConfD User Guide is the recommended starting point for new users.
The installation program will unpack the user guide in $CONFD_DIR/doc.
Both HTML and PDF versions can be found there, as well as Javadoc for
the ConfD Java API:

    User Guide (HTML): confd-<VERSION>/doc/index.html
    User Guide (PDF):  confd-<VERSION>/doc/user_guide-<VERSION>.pdf
    Javadoc:           confd-<VERSION>/doc/java/index.html

The installation program will unpack the ConfD manual pages from the
documentation archive in $CONFD_DIR/man.  'confdrc' makes an addition
to $MANPATH, allowing you to use the 'man' command to view them.  Here
follows a list of the manual pages installed:

    confd(1)
        command to start and control the ConfD daemon
    confd_aaa_bridge(1)
        Populating ConfD aaa_bridge.fxs with external data
    confd_cli(1)
        Frontend to the ConfD CLI engine
    confd_cmd(1)
        Command line utility that interfaces to common ConfD library functions
    confd_load(1)
        Command line utility to load and save ConfD configurations
    confdc(1)
        Confdc compiler
    maapi(1) 
        command to access an ongoing transaction
    pyang(1)
        validate and convert YANG modules to various formats
    confd_lib(3)
        library for connecting to ConfD
    confd_lib_cdb(3)
        library for connecting to ConfD built in XML database (CDB)
    confd_lib_dp(3)
        callback library for connecting data providers to ConfD
    confd_lib_events(3)
        library for subscribing to ConfD event notifications
    confd_lib_ha(3)
        library for connecting to ConfD HA subsystem
    confd_lib_lib(3)
        common library functions for applications connecting to ConfD
    confd_lib_maapi(3)
        MAAPI (Management Agent API). A library for connecting to ConfD
        with a read/write interface inside transactions.
    confd_types(3)
        ConfD value representation in C
    clispec(5)
        CLI specification file format
    confd.conf(5)
        ConfD daemon configuration file format
    mib_annotations(5)
        MIB annotations file format
    tailf_yang_cli_extensions(5)
        Tail-f YANG CLI extensions
    tailf_yang_extensions(5)
        Tail-f YANG extensions

For example, to view the man page describing how a Managed Object
reads its configuration from the built-in database CDB, you'd type:

    $ man confd_lib_cdb

Apart from the man pages, extensive information about command line
options can be obtained by running confd and confdc with the --help
(abbreviated -h) flag.

    $ confd --help

    $ confdc --help

In addition to the ConfD User Guide, we recommend starting by browsing
the examples.  There are a variety of examples to be found under
$CONFD_DIR/examples.confd, each one has a README file explaining it's
purpose and usage.  Start by viewing $CONFD_DIR/examples.confd/README.

If you're eager to get started, skip the rest of this file and go
there now!


Moving a ConfD Installation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

You can move the directory where you installed ConfD to a new location
in your directory tree. Simply move ConfD's root directory to the new
desired location, and update this file:

  * $CONFD_DIR/confdrc (and confdrc.tcsh if you want)
    This is a small and handy script that sets up some environment
    variables for you.  Update the paths to the new location.

If you use the 'smidump' program, you should also update this file:

  * $CONFD_DIR/etc/confd/smi.conf
    This is a configuration file for use with 'smidump', and includes a
    'path' statement that adds the mib directory in the ConfD
    installation. Update the path to the new location (make sure to
    preserve the leading colon).

The $CONFD_DIR/bin/confd and $CONFD_DIR/bin/confdc scripts will
determine the location of ConfD's root directory automatically.


Removing a ConfD Installation
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ConfD installation program installs ConfD in a single directory,
and doesn't create or modify any other part of the file system.  To
uninstall ConfD, simply remove the directory where ConfD is installed.

    $ rm -rf confd-X.X


Installing ConfD in a Central Location
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If you install ConfD in a central location for the benefit of multiple
users, all users need read access to all files in the installation.
In particular the SSH host certificate generated by the installation
program typically has user read access only. This can be fixed by
issuing this command:

    $ chmod a+r $CONFD_DIR/etc/confd/ssh/ssh_host_dsa_key

Further, we would recommend each user to make a local copy of the
examples.  Either the whole example tree:

    $ cp -r /central/location/confd-X.X/examples.confd ~/confd-X.X-examples

Or you can copy specific examples:

    $ cp -r /central/location/confd-X.X/examples.confd/intro/1-2-3-start-query-model\
    ~/confd-X.X-examples

To set your PATH, MANPATH and LD_LIBRARY_PATH to include ConfD, and
let the examples find the ConfD installation, make sure you source the
'confdrc' file in your login sequence (typically in .bashrc) or
manually before you start using the ConfD examples.

    $ source /central/location/confd-X.X/confdrc
    $ cd ~/confd-X.X-examples/intro/1-2-3-start-query-model
    $ make all
    ...


Running Multiple Instances of ConfD
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If multiple users will run ConfD on the same host machine, or if one
user wants to run multiple instances of ConfD at the same time, you
will need to edit the 'confd.conf' configuration files in each
example.  Otherwise each ConfD instance will try to open the same
ports, which will fail for all but one user/one instance.

In the 'confd.conf' file of each example, each user will need to add a
port statement with a unique port number.  For example, the first user
could use port 11565, the second 12565, the third 13565, etc.

    <confdIpcAddress>
        <port>11565</port>
    </confdIpcAddress>

The above statement needs to go inside the <confdConf> tag in
'confd.conf'.  You will also have to change all <port> elements to a
unique value.  Most examples have <port> statements for the NETCONF
and CLI access, some for Web UI and SNMP as well.

    <netconf>
        <enabled>true</enabled>
        <transport>
            <ssh>
                <enabled>true</enabled>
                <ip>0.0.0.0</ip>
                <port>11022</port>
            </ssh>

When connecting to ConfD using the various northbound interfaces, you
will have to specify the port number to make sure you are talking to
the right ConfD instance (and not your co-workers' ConfD instance).
You do this in different ways when controlling ConfD from the shell
and for the different northbound interfaces:

    Shell:    CONFD_IPC_PORT=11565 confd --status
    CLI:      confd_cli --port=11024 ...
    NETCONF:  netconf-console --port=11022 ...
    Web UI:   firefox http://hostname:11008/...
    SNMP:     snmpwalk hostname:11000 ...

You will also need to change the port number used inside the example
code in a few places.  Replace occurrences of CONFD_PORT and 4565 with
your unique port number, e.g. 11565.

See also the section 'ConfD IPC' in the 'Advanced Topics' chapter in the
ConfD User Guide.


Installing ConfD for Deployment
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The installation program installs ConfD in a way suitable for
development work. To install ConfD for deployment, see the section
'Installing ConfD on a target system' in the 'Advanced Topics' chapter
in the ConfD User Guide.


Troubleshooting
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

See the 'Troubleshooting' section in the 'Advanced Topics' chapter in
the ConfD User Guide.


Support
~~~~~~~

If you are evaluating or using ConfD Basic, you must use the ConfD
User Community Forum for any questions.  The Forum can be found at
http://discuss.tail-f.com.

If you are evaluating ConfD Premium, you should have a designated
support contact.  You are also welcome to mail
eval-support@tail-f.com. 

If you have a ConfD support agreement, please use the support channels
specified in the agreement.  You are also welcome to mail
support@tail-f.com.

In either case, please, do not hesitate to send us any questions or
feedback you may come up with.
