How to configure Emacs to automatically validate xml based files
--------------------------------------------------------------------------

  Confspec, clispec and confd.conf are just special cases of XML files, and
  fit neatly into the nxml-mode validation system.

  If you are not familiar with nxml-mode, read the final section first.

  You need these files:

    o confd_cfg.rnc
    o clispec.rnc
    o xschema.rnc
    o schemas.xml

  Put these files wherever you like, but together. If the RNC files
  are not in the same directory as schemas.xml,
  schemas.xml needs to be edited to point to the correct location.

  Clispec files have the suffix ".cli". To enter nxml-mode
  automatically, put the following in your .emacs file:

  (require 'nxml-mode)
  (setq auto-mode-alist (append (list (cons "\\.cli\\'" 'nxml-mode)
                                      (cons "\\.conf\\'" 'nxml-mode))
                                auto-mode-alist))
  (setq nxml-slash-auto-complete-flag t)
  (load "rng-auto.el")

  ".conf" may be a too general suffix to denote confd.conf files
  exclusively. In that case, omit it from the command above, and also
  remove the corresponding entry in schemas.xml.

  To make nxml-mode find the file schemas.xml, which points out
  our .rnc files, put also the following in your .emacs file (edit the
  file name according to your own choice):

  (require 'rng-valid)
  (setq rng-schema-locating-files (append rng-schema-locating-files
                                          '("~/relaxng/schemas.xml")))

  Or if your CONFD_DIR variable is set:

  (setq rng-schema-locating-files
      (append rng-schema-locating-files
              '("${CONFD_DIR}/src/confd/emacs/relaxng/schemas.xml")))

  Now all is set for editing .cs and .cli files, and confd.conf.

Notes on the files
------------------

clispec.rnc is the Relax NG schema for clipecs. It corresponds
closely to the XML Schema for clispecs (clispec.xsd, included in the
ConfD distribution, or as
http://www.tail-f.com/ns/clispec/1.0/). Correspondingly
for confd_cfg.rnc.

xschema.rnc is the Relax NG schema for XML schemas. xschema.rnc is
almost identical to a xmlschema.rnc, often already included in the
nxml-mode installation, but without the top-level node, since
confspecs are not XML schemas.  In xschema.rnc, additionally, an
attribute xs:idValue has been added to xs:enumeration, as well as the
ConfD extension confd:typepoint to xs:simpleType.

schemas.xml is the file that defines the connection between the XML
file (by suffix, namespace, etc.) and the particular Relax NG schema
file to use for validating it. The predefined connections can be found
in the main schemas.xml file, indicated by the original value of the
elisp variable rng-schema-locating-files.

Using nxml-mode to edit and validate XML files
----------------------------------------------

Do you have nxml-mode installed? Visit a file with the suffix ".xml"
and see whether the modeline shows "nXML". If it does, the modeline
will also say either "Valid" or "Invalid", depending on whether the
buffer contains valid XML data or not.

If you don't have nxml-mode installed, fetch it. Its home page is
http://www.thaiopensource.com/nxml-mode/. It may also be available as
a downloadable package for your operating system.
